"No No"s like Ichiro
were sent to Tule Lake.
Tule Lake was a maximum security camp
with armed sentries ready to shoot,
observing the incarcerated with suspicion.
Shoichi James Okamoto was
one of the 18,700 incarcerated at Tule Lake.
On May 24th, 1944,
Okamoto, while driving a construction
truck back and forth between the camp
and the worksite outside the camp,
was stopped by a center-gate sentry
demanding that Okamoto
step out of his truck and show his pass.
Okamoto stepped out of the
cab but refused to show his pass,
whereupon the sentry struck
him on the shoulder with his rifle
the two exchanged words,
and the sentry shot Okamoto.
The next day, he died.
He was 30 years old.
At the court-martial trial,
the sentry was acquitted of the homicide
and only charged one dollar
for the cost of the bullet.